Now we get the basic node and the express app set up,
it's not very powerful yet but we'll get there.
I want to improve the server.js file, simply to add some error handling and better output and attached
to this video, you'll find a file with the content
I'm about to paste in and I'll replace the entire content in the server.js file with that code,
it's a bit more but I will walk you through it.
Now I'm still importing app and my http package,
so make sure that path to your app file is correct
by the way as you see and as you saw in the last lecture if you omit .js. And then I got this normalized
port function,
a bit of a more elaborate function that simply makes sure that when we try to set up a port and especially
when we receive it through an environment variable, we actually make sure it's a valid number
if we want to use it. Then I got an onError function here which
will simply check which type of error occurred and well, log something different and exit gracefully
from our nodejs server. We've got onListening,
another function which is stored in this constant,
an arrow function just like onError where we essentially just output or where we log that we are now
listening to incoming requests.
Then here I'm setting up the port, calling that normalized port function from up there and then still
accessing process env port or setting 3000 as a value, here as a string,
you could pass a number too but I'm using a string here because the value we receive here typically would
be a string.
I'm setting this on my express app,
we set up that node server and then I register it to listeners, one for errors that might occur where we will
use the error handler here and one for whenever we start listening,
well then I will simply call onListening and these are simply executed to tell us if something went
wrong with starting a server or if everything went smooth
and then I do start the server.
Now that's one improvement and what we needed to do if we hadn't quit the server already, we would need
to quit and restart to see that in action. Now constantly being required to quit the server and restart
it will become annoying,
so I will install an extra package which we can use during development which makes it a bit easier.
So we'll use npm to install that package, npm install --save -dev actually because it's
a development only dependency and it's called nodemon for node monitoring.
It's a powerful tool which simply watch this our nodejs file or our javascript files in general and
if we change one of them, it will automatically restart
the node server for us.
Now with it installed, we just have to use it to run our node server,
we won't use node and then the server name anymore,
instead it will be nodemon but since we haven't installed it globally on our machine, this command is
actually not available
but it is available inside of this project scope.
So all we can do is we can go to the package.json file and there, we find a scripts section and we
can just register a new script here, like start:server,
the name is up to you
and then between the quotation marks on the right, you entered the command you want to use
and here you can use nodemon because it's a local dependency of this project and then server.js.
And now we can run this script with npm run and then start server or whatever your name is
and this will now use nodemon to spin up that server and we get an error
but in general, it's working and
there's one thing missing in the attached file,
yes sorry, you need to import another package, debug, require the debug package and pass any identifier
you want here like node angular,
that is up to you,
save this and now we at least saw the restart in action,
so now it started the server.
This by the way is also a package shipping with node so you don't need to install it
and now we got a setup where we can change our server side code and for example if I add an extra blank line here and
if we save, it will automatically restart the server.
So with that, we got a nice development environment, a nice setup,
let's now finally make our app more useful and provide a route from which we can fetch some initial
posts.
Wouldn't that be great?